[DOCU-2921] Status endpoint + Kong health  check (#5419)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/production/monitoring/readiness-check.md

The readiness check endpoint returns a `200 OK` response when Kong is ready, or a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable` response when it's not. This is useful for load balancers and other tools that need to monitor the readiness of Kong instances.

Note that the readiness endpoint does not return detailed node readiness information such as the
amount of memory Kong node is using. You might want to check out the [`/status` API](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/#retrieve-node-status) as well.

## Prerequisites

* Kong installed
* Basic understanding of Kong configuration and deployment modes (Traditional, DB-less, and Hybrid)

## Understanding the Node Readiness Endpoint

Before diving into the steps, it's important to understand the purpose of the Node Readiness Endpoint and how it determines whether a Kong instance is ready or not.

### Traditional mode

In Traditional mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

1. Successful connection to the database
2. Successful initial build of all routers for all workers
3. Successful initial build of all plugin iterators for all workers

> ### Hybrid mode (`data_plane` role) or DB-less mode

Reviewer: What does this endpoint do for `control_plane`?

Reviewer: I added another section for this (d50ba7a858). It's a little awkward with only 1 list item :shrug: but I just wanted to keep it consistent with the other sections.

---
title: Readiness Check
content_type: tutorial
---

This tutorial guides you through the process of using the Node Readiness Endpoint, which provides a reliable way to determine if Kong is ready to serve user requests.

The readiness check endpoint returns a `200 OK` response when Kong is ready, or a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable` response when it's not. This is useful for load balancers and other tools that need to monitor the readiness of Kong instances. When Kong is not ready, the endpoint responds back with a `message` field with the reason for unreadiness. This can be helpful to debug situations where the user expects that the node should be ready but is not.

> Note that the readiness endpoint does not return detailed node status information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{:.note}
> **Note:**  The readiness endpoint does not return detailed information about the node status.
```

## Prerequisites

> * Kong installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* {{site.base_gateway}}
```

> * Basic understanding of Kong configuration and deployment modes (Traditional, DB-less, and Hybrid)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A basic understanding of {{site.base_gateway}} configuration and deployment modes (traditional, DB-less, and hybrid)
```

> ## Understanding the Node Readiness Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Understanding the Node Readiness endpoint
```

> Before diving into the steps, it's important to understand the purpose of the Node Readiness Endpoint and how it determines whether a Kong instance is ready or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before diving into the steps, it's important to understand the purpose of the Node Readiness endpoint and how it determines whether a Kong instance is ready or not.
```

### Traditional mode

> In Traditional mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In traditional mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:
```

1. Successful connection to the database
2. All Kong workers are ready to route requests
3. All routes and services have their plugins ready to process requests

### Hybrid mode (`data_plane` role) or DB-less mode

> In Hybrid mode (`data_plane` role) or DB-less mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Hybrid mode (`data_plane` role) or DB-less mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when the following conditions are met:
```

1. Kong has loaded a valid and non-empty config (`kong.yaml`)
2. All Kong workers are ready to route requests
3. All routes and services have their plugins ready to process requests

### Hybrid mode (`control_plane` role)

> In Hybrid Mode (`control_plane` role), this endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Hybrid Mode (`control_plane` role), this endpoint returns `200 OK` when the following condition is met:
```

1. Successful connection to the database

> ## Enabling the Status Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling the Status endpoint
```

> In order to use the Node Readiness Endpoint, make sure that you have enabled the Status API Server (disabled by default) via the [status_listen](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#status_listen) configuration parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to use the Node Readiness endpoint, make sure that you have enabled the Status API server (disabled by default) via the [status_listen](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#status_listen) configuration parameter.
```

> In order to use the Node Readiness Endpoint, make sure that you have enabled the Status API Server (disabled by default) via the [status_listen](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#status_listen) configuration parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to use the Node Readiness endpoint, make sure that you have enabled the Status API Server (disabled by default) via the [status_listen](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#status_listen) configuration parameter.
```

Example `kong.conf`:

```conf
status_listen = 0.0.0.0:8100
```

> ## Using the Node Readiness Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using the Node Readiness endpoint
```

> Once you've enabled the Node Readiness Endpoint, you can send a GET request to it to check the readiness of your Kong instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've enabled the Node Readiness endpoint, you can send a GET request to check the readiness of your {{site.base_gateway}} instance:
```

```sh
# Replace `<status-api-host>` with the appropriate host for
# your Status API server, including the port number

curl -i <status-api-host>/status/ready
```

> If the response code is `200`, your Kong instance is ready to serve requests:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the response code is `200`, the {{site.base_gateway}} instance is ready to serve requests:
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 04 May 2023 22:00:52 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Connection: keep-alive
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Content-Length: 19
X-Kong-Admin-Latency: 3
Server: kong/3.3.0

{
  "message": "ready"
}
```

> If the response code is `503`, your Kong instance is unhealthy and/or not yet ready to serve requests:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the response code is `503`, the {{site.base_gateway}} instance is unhealthy and/or not yet ready to serve requests:
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 503 Service Temporarily Unavailable
Date: Thu, 04 May 2023 22:01:11 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Connection: keep-alive
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Content-Length: 43
X-Kong-Admin-Latency: 3
Server: kong/3.3.0

{
  "message": "failed to connect to database"
}
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 503 Service Temporarily Unavailable
Date: Thu, 04 May 2023 22:06:58 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Connection: keep-alive
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Content-Length: 70
X-Kong-Admin-Latency: 16
Server: kong/3.3.0

{
  "message": "no configuration available (empty configuration present)"
}
```

## Updating Readiness Probes

> If you're using Kubernetes or Helm, you may need to update the readiness probe configuration to use the new Node Readiness Endpoint. Modify the `readinessProbe` section in your configuration file to look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using Kubernetes or Helm, you may need to update the readiness probe configuration to use the new Node Readiness endpoint. Modify the `readinessProbe` section in your configuration file to look like this:
```

---
title: Readiness Check
content_type: tutorial
---

> This tutorial will guide you through the process of using the Node Readiness Endpoint, which provides a reliable and simple way to determine if Kong is ready to serve user requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tutorial guides you through the process of using the Node Readiness Endpoint, which provides a reliable to determine if Kong is ready to serve user requests.
```

The readiness check endpoint returns a `200 OK` response when Kong is ready, or a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable` response when it's not. This is useful for load balancers and other tools that need to monitor the readiness of Kong instances.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The status endpoint responds back with a 'message' with the reason for unreadiness. This can be very helpful to debug situations where the user expects that the node should be ready but is not.

```

https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/unready says unreadiness is a word.

Note that the readiness endpoint does not return detailed node readiness information such as the

> amount of memory Kong node is using. You might want to check out the [`/status` API](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/#retrieve-node-status) as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This is not necessary.

## Prerequisites

* Kong installed
* Basic understanding of Kong configuration and deployment modes (Traditional, DB-less, and Hybrid)

## Understanding the Node Readiness Endpoint

Before diving into the steps, it's important to understand the purpose of the Node Readiness Endpoint and how it determines whether a Kong instance is ready or not.

### Traditional mode

In Traditional mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

1. Successful connection to the database
2. Successful initial build of all routers for all workers
3. Successful initial build of all plugin iterators for all workers

### Hybrid mode (`data_plane` role) or DB-less mode

In Hybrid mode (`data_plane` role) or DB-less mode, the endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

1. Kong has loaded a valid and non-empty config (`kong.yaml`)
2. Successful initial build of all routers for all workers

> 3. Successful initial build of all plugin iterators for all workers

Reviewer 3: All of this is a lot of information and words that an end user of Kong doesn't understand or rather does not need to understand. Router or Plugin Iterator are internal data structures of Kong and we don't expect our users to know about them (even though we expose some knobs to tweak them).

Can we consolidate this a bit?

### Hybrid mode (`control_plane` role)

In Hybrid Mode (`control_plane` role), this endpoint returns `200 OK` when all of the following conditions are met:

1. Successful connection to the database

## Enabling the Status Endpoint

> In order to use the Node Readiness Endpoint, make sure that you have enabled the Status API Server via the [status_listen](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#status_listen) configuration parameter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to use the Node Readiness Endpoint, make sure that you have enabled the Status API Server (disabled by default) via the [status_listen](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#status_listen) configuration parameter.
```
